---
title: "Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-05-26-aih
excerpt: 'Quality care that is accessible within the shortest time frame is a tenet of the healthcare sector.
However, it is not often possible for medical practitioners to provide accurate diagnosis and
treatment within a reasonable period of time.'
date: 2021-05-26
venue: 'Laikipia University'
paperurl: 'https://martinoywa.github.io/files/AI_in_Healthcare.pdf'
citation: 'Martin Oywa, Sarah Mukuti, John Ndichu, Kennedy Mutiso. (2021). &quot;Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare; <i>Laikipia University</i>'
---
Quality care that is accessible within the shortest time frame is a tenet of the healthcare sector.
However, it is not often possible for medical practitioners to provide accurate diagnosis and
treatment within a reasonable period of time. Therefore, errors are bound to happen and sometimes
they may be very detrimental to the patient’s health condition. In many areas the slow treatment
process is also as a result of a low number of qualified medical practitioners compared to the large
number of patients who seek medical care in the hospital institutions. Scientists and other
stakeholders have spent many decades exploring the importance of AI in the healthcare sector.
Some of the most successful research areas that have so far been implemented include how AI can
be used for diagnosis, drug discovery, and prescriptions. It is an undeniable fact that the impact of
AI has already been felt in various discipline within the medical field. That does not however,
overwrite the fact that there are many challenges that slow down the integration of artificial
intelligence to routine healthcare processes. This paper will analyze the existing literature review
relating to artificial intelligence for healthcare and also expound on some of the findings that have
been made so far. Thereafter, a befitting conclusion will be made briefing how the existing
challenges can be solved to make artificial intelligence integration in healthcare a bit simpler.

[Download paper here](https://martinoywa.github.io/files/AI_in_Healthcare.pdf)

Recommended citation: Martin Oywa, Sarah Mukuti, John Ndichu, Kennedy Mutiso. (2021). &quot;Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare; <i>Laikipia University</i>